--- 
title: The Road to Vim
created_at: 2011-02-16
updated_at: 2011-02-16
kind: article
published: false
//excerpt: <p>Sometimes I like to re-create effects I like from other sites. I find this is a great way to learn a new technology or skill. Today, I decided to have a go at creating the big &#147;Welcome to Channel 4&#148; navigation area on the <a href="http://www.channel4.com/">Channel 4 homepage</a> in CSS3.</p>
---
Vim's fucking epic! This is my transition from TextMate.

ragtag - inserting html tags (eq. of CTRL+> CTRL+< in TextMate)

	<C-X><Space> (CTRL+X Space) after word, make into tag (| is cursor location)
		foo|<C-X><Space>  =>  <foo>|</foo>
	
	<C-X><CR> (CTRL-X Enter) after word, make into tag with new lines
		foo|<C-X><CR>  =>  <foo>\n|\n</foo>

	<C-X>/ (CTRL-X /) close last tag
		<p>Hello there|<C-X>/  =>  <p>Hello there</p>|

	<C-X>= insert ruby erb puts tag
		foo|<C-X>=  =>  foo<%= | %>
	
	<C-X>+ insert ruby erb puts tag around word
		foo|<C-X>+  =>  <%= foo| %>

	<C-X>- insert ruby erb tags
		foo<C-X>-  =>  foo<% | %>
	
	<C-X>_ insert ruby erb tags around word
		foo<C-X>_  => <% foo| %>

EnhancedCommentify - smart commenting out
	<leader>, to comment out line. also works in Visual mode
	detects language & commenting style automatically
	supports embedded languages in HTML (eg. CSS, JS, PHP etc.)

NERDTree - file navigator

snipMate - Snippets
	Tab-trigger snippets, very similar to TextMate

surround - add/change/remove surrounding stuff

sparkup - Write HTML markup faster (zencoding) with <C-E>
	div#container>header>h1{The title}

Textile - syntax highlighting support & more for textile
	<leader>rp  =>  Render into HTML & preview in browser
	<leader>rt  =>  Render into HTML & preview in new tab

i = insert mode
v = visual mode
V = visual mode (line style)
